Title: Managing rackspace products in SaltStack
Date: 2014-09-19 18:33
Category: Salt
Tags: salt, rackspace, pyrax
Slug: pyrax-rackspace
Author: Daniel Wallace
Summary: How rackspace products should be organized in the SaltStack infrastructure.

# How everything is setup now.

Currently we have been keeping all the individual drivers seperate, controlling 
all the behavior so that you get the same experience no matter which provider 
you use. I would like to keep doing this even though we are adding stuff that is
more specific.

The goal will be to continue to only use the CloudClient interface, and just run
everything through that so that we can write the code once, and have it 
available to all of the different cloud modules/runner/state/salt-cloud.


# Getting Started

I want to start this one cleanly and not run into the problems that happened 
with the novaclient driver.  Starting with salt.utils.openstack.pyrax, 
\_\_init\_\_.py should look something like this

## salt/utils/openstack/pyrax/\_\_init\_\_.py
```python
    from __future__ import print_function, with_statement, generators

    try:
        import pyrax

        # import pyrax classes
        from salt.utils.openstack.pyrax.authentication import Auth

        __all__ = [ 'Auth' ]
        HAS_PYRAX = True
    except ImportError as err:
        HAS_PYRAX = False
```

This will keep everything imported when we just import
salt.utils.openstack.pyrax but if pyrax is not installed, it doesn't try to 
import it a bunch more times on all the other files.  

Once this has begun, there will be the main class, that gets authenticated and 
does the \_get\_conn just like all the other drivers do, but then, we can just 
pass the authenticated object to all the new classes, instead of authenticating 
on each new one.

After these have gotten started, everything needs to then be referenced in salt.
cloud.clouds.pyrax, and that just uses the classes from the utils directory.  
This is the code I am writing right now, and once it is finished, it will make 
it really easy for anyone to just add another class in another file and then 
hook it into the salt-cloud pyrax driver.

# What is next?

I have to write the authentication and servers class, since those are what 
everything revolves around.  Once those are done, we can start expanding and 
have everyone come in and start adding Cloud Things!

From the point that it is up, everything should be easy enough to run through 
the cloud.action module.  Using the cloud.action module, I want to make one 
pyrax state that does all the things.

I am definitely going to get the first pyrax authentication class and stuff done
this weekend, and am going to start with it in my gtmanfred/salt repo in the 
pyrax branch.  Look for that on Saturday or Sunday this weekend.
