Title: How I setup pelican and git
Date: 2013-07-20 20:09
Category: Pelican
Tags: pelican, git, publishing
Slug: setting-up-pelican-and-git
Author: Daniel Wallace
Summary:  why won't it work...

#Getting markdown and get to work in Pelican

[get pelican](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-themes)

Ok! so this was a fun experiment.  I wanted to be able to run git push and have everything be
published automagically to the website.

While I am posting this first blog post I am still testing out some kinks and getting
everything to work correctly.  And as I say that... everything works... except pelican doesn't
default to using .mkd files. Silly vim-markdown not recognizing the .md suffix.

__OK here is where I got everything working correctly(and I broke it)__

###Setting up the pelican user!

To keep everything clean on my server and also to prevent me from having to install a whole
shitton of extra python packages, I am just using a virtualenv and managing everything from a
seperate user.  In my pelican users home directory, there are 3 extra directories.

###Blog Virtual Environment
First off is ~/blogenv/. In this directory we have our virtual environment.  Because I am
using Arch Linux, and we default to python3, I was very happy to see pelican is compatible
with python3.  Once you have whatever python-virtualenv package your distribution comes with,
just make the virtual environment and install pelican.

    virtualenv ~/blogenv
    source ~/blogenv/bin/activate
    pip install -e git://github.com/getpelican/pelican.git#egg=pelican

I prefer to use the git repository for pelican, feel free to use the version from pypi.  A
nice tip, since we are only going to ever use this user for that virtual environment is to
just add source ~/blogenv/bin/activate in your ~/.bashrc so that we always get the environment
when using bash.

###Start blog
Next we need to setup our blog environment.  This one is really simple, just run the
pelican-quickstart command and answer all the questions that it asks.

    pelican-quickstart -p ~/blog

If you really wanted, you could stop here.  You just write your blog posts in the content
directory under ~/blog.  Once you have written something, run make in ~/blog and your html
files will be put in ~/blog/output.  Then just host the blog with nginx or an equivalent HTTP
server.

    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name blog.gtmanfred.com blag.gtmanfred.com;
        root /home/pelican/blog/output;
        index index.html;
        location ~ ^/feeds {
            autoindex on
        }
    }

###Setting up git
If you are like me, you like it when things are automated.  This is where git comes in to keep
track of your blog posts and files.  This way we only have to keep track of a small number of
files and don't have to worry about the rest of the pelican files if we don't want.

Start out with making your blog git repository on your localmachine and initialize it.

```
mkdir ~/gitrepos/blogposts
cd ~/gitrepos/blogposts
git init
```

After this you will want to go ahead and copy over your pelicanconf.py from the ~/blog
directory on the remote device to your local git repository.  Now git add it.

    git add pelicanconf.py
    git commit -m "First Commit -> Starting new blog!"

Now we need to go back to the pelican user on your remote machine with the pelican
subdirectory.  I personally kept with the blog directory naming theme and initialized a bare
repo for my blog.

```
mkdir ~pelican/bloggit
cd ~pelican/bloggit
git init --bare
```

Now we can go ahead and setup out githook that is going to do all the work for us.  Copy the
following into ~/bloggit/hooks/post-update.

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
source ~/blogenv/bin/activate
GIT_WORK_TREE=/home/pelican/blog git checkout -f
pushd ~/blog
make html
make publish
popd
```


I know what you are thinking! Why do we have to source bin/activate in the git hook if we are
already sourcing it in .bash_profile? Well, this script won't read .bash_profile.  There are
ways to make it read that file, such as adding --login after the bash call, but this is rather
messy and and one extra line isn't a big deal.

Now, back on your local machine, lets make a markdown file to publish our first blogpost.  In
your git repository, make a contents directory and write a blog post.  Here is an example if
you don't want to spend the time right now.

[From the pelican documentation](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican/blob/master/docs/getting_started.rst#file-metadata)

    Title: My super title
    Date: 2010-12-03 10:20
    Category: Python
    Tags: pelican, publishing
    Slug: my-super-post
    Author: Alexis Metaireau
    Summary: Short version for index and feeds
    
    This is the content of my super blog post.

Place this in a file ending with .md for your git repository.  We now need to setup the remote
git repository and push to it.

```
git remote add website pelican@blog.gtmanfred.com:bloggit
git remote update
git push -u website master
```

This should generate the blog posts and you should be able to use the same nginx.conf server
from above.

###I am a bit weird about my nginx configurations and /home
Now when I was writing this post I removed a few bits and pieces from my actual setup, just
beacuse I am peculiar.  The Makefile for pelican recognizes the environment variable OUTPUTDIR
for where you want output set to... so I set it to /srv/http/blog.gtmanfred.com.

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
source ~/blogenv/bin/activate
GIT_WORK_TREE=/home/pelican/blog git checkout -f
make -C ~/blog OUTPUTDIR=/srv/http/blog.gtmanfred.com/ html
make -C ~/blog OUTPUTDIR=/srv/http/blog.gtmanfred.com/ publish
```

I also wanted to use [vim-markdown](https://github.com/plasticboy/vim-markdown), and I use
pathogen, so I just cloned the git repo into ~/.config/vim/bundle (yes .config ... it is a
long story).  Because [vim-markdown](https://github.com/plasticboy/vim-markdown) only uses
.mkd suffix, I had to add the following to pelicanconf.py.

    MARKUP = ("mkd",)

Don't forget the , because python is expecting a list.

###Summary

I Hope to be doing a lot more of these blog posts now that I can remove the vim blogit plugin
because Wordpress truely sucks.
